Week 15 Homework

Part 1: Q&A

\\The URL Cruise Missile

Which part of the URL can be manipulated by an attacker to exploit a vulnerable back-end database system?


Solution: Parameters


Which part of the URL can be manipulated by an attacker to cause a vulnerable web server to dump the /etc/passwd file? Also, name the attack used to exploit this vulnerability.


Solution: Path. The attack is referred to as Path or Directory Traversal.



Name three threat agents that can pose a risk to your organization.


Solution: An individual, group, organization, or government that exploits or intends to exploit a vulnerability.



What kinds of sources can act as an attack vector for injection attacks?


Solution: If it has the capability, any source can act as an attack vector.



Injection attacks exploit which part of the CIA triad?


Solution: Confidentiality



Which two mitigation methods can be used to thwart injection attacks?


Solution: Input Sanitation/Validation

\\Web Server Infrastructure

What stage is the most inner part of the web architecture where data such as, customer names, addresses, account numbers, and credit card info, is stored?


Solution: Stage 5



Which stage includes online forms, word processors, shopping carts, video and photo editing, spreadsheets, file scanning, file conversion, and email programs such as Gmail, Yahoo and AOL.


Solution: Stage 4



What stage is the component that stores files (e.g. HTML documents, images, CSS stylesheets, and JavaScript files) that's connected to the Internet and provides support for physical data interactions between other devices connected to the web?


Solution: Stage 3



What stage is where the end user interacts with the World Wide Web through the use of a web browser?


Solution: Stage 1



Which stage is designed to prevent unauthorized access to and from protected web server resources?


Solution: Stage 2

\\Server Side Attacks

What is the process called that cleans and scrubs user input in order to prevent it from exploiting security holes by proactively modifying user input.


Solution: Input Sanitation



Name the process that tests user and application-supplied input. The process is designed to prevent malformed data from entering a data information system by verifying user input meets a specific set of criteria (i.e. a string that does not contain standalone single quotation marks).


Solution: Input Validation



Secure SDLC is the process of ensuring security is built into web applications throughout the entire software development life cycle. Name three reasons why organization might fail at producing secure web applications.


Solution: Any of the following.
Implementation costs are high.
Insufficient support from upper management.
Insufficient standardization within organization.
Poor or no quality management.
Reactive security posture (If it ain’t broke don’t fix it mentality).
Reliance upon a false sense of security that Web Application Firewalls provide absolute protection.




How might an attacker exploit the robots.txt file on a web server?


Solution: The robots.txt file contains sensitive web server information such as a list of files and web server directories that web site owners keep hidden from web crawlers. Experienced criminal hackers will attempt to harvest the robots.txt file using the URL and try to retrieve private data such as content management system information and the root directory structure.



What steps can an organization take to obscure or obfuscate their contact information on domain registry web sites?


Solution: Through the use of a proxy service or private domain registration.



True or False: As a network defender, Client-Side validation is preferred over Server-Side validation because it's easier to defend against attacks.


Solution: False. Client-side validation can be bypassed more easily than server-side validation because access controls are only effective on the server-side, where attackers cannot modify access control checks and metadata.



\\Web Application Firewalls

WAFs are designed to defend against different types of HTTP attacks and various query types such as SQLi and XSS.
WAFs are typically present on web sites that use strict transport security mechanisms such as online banking or e-commerce websites.


Which layer of the OSI model do WAFs operate at?


Solution: Layer 7: Application Layer



A WAF helps protect web applications by filtering and monitoring what?


Solution: HTTP traffic between web applications and the Internet



True or False: A WAF based on the negative security model (Blacklisting) protects against known attacks, and a WAF based on the positive security model (Whitelisting) allows pre-approved traffic to pass.


Solution: True

\\Authentication and Access Controls

Legislation and regulations such as The Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard requires the use of MFAs for all network access to a Card Data Environment (CDE).


Security administrators should have a comprehensive understanding of the basic underlying principles of how MFA works.




Define all four factors of multifactor authentication and give examples of each:

Factor 1: Standard login inputs (Password, Pin, Cognitive Questions)
Factor 2: Physical keys (Smartcard, Hard Token)
Factor 3: Biometrics (Iris / Retina scan, Hand Geometry)
Factor 4: Location (GPS detection, callback to a home phone number)



True or False: A password and pin is an example of 2-factor authentication.


Solution: False



True or False: A password and google authenticator app is an example of 2-factor authentication.


Solution: True



What is a constrained user interface?


Solution: A constrained user interface restricts what users can see or do based on their privileges such as grayed-out or missing menu items, interface changes, and activity-based controls.


